=== Original size: 614321 bytes ===
=== After extractReadableText (strip + cap 12000 chars): 12010 bytes ===

Skip to contentSkip to main menuSkip to more DW sitesIran war: Tehran warns US against ground assaulthttps://p.dw.com/p/5BKG5Copy linkAdvertisementhttps://p.dw.com/p/5BKG5Copy linkThe USS Tripoli, an amphibious assault ship carrying 3,500 American troops, arrived in the Middle East on FridayImage: US CENTCOM/Handout/Anadolu/picture allianceAdvertisementSkip next section What you need to knowWhat you need to know US plotting ground attack despite diplomatic efforts, says Iran parliament speaker Pentagon preparing possible deployment of ground forces, The Washington Post reports, as first contingent of US Marines arrives in region Iran's Revolutionary Guard threatens to strike US universities in Middle East Pakistan hosting talks with Saudi Arabian, Turkish and Egyptian foreign ministers Here are the developments in the US-Israel war with Iran on Sunday, March 29, 2026: Skip next section What to know if you're just joining us now29 minutes ago29 minutes agoWhat to know if you're just joining us nowIranian forces are "waiting for the arrival of the American soldiers on the ground to set them on fire and punish their regional allies once and for all," the country's parliament said, warning of a US ground attack. The comments come as 2,500 US Marines arrived in the region and as regional powers met in Pakistan to discuss an end to the war in the Middle East, which entered its fifth week on Sunday. The Washington Post reported the US defense department was preparing for potentially weeks of ground operations in Iran, citing officials. Meanwhile, the Iran-backed Houthi rebels of Yemen entered the war on Saturday morning, launching ballistic missiles at Israel and vowing to launch more strikes following US-Israeli strikes on Iranian nuclear facilities. https://p.dw.com/p/5BLQKCopy linkSkip next section Pope Leo condemns using God to justify war41 minutes ago41 minutes agoPope Leo condemns using God to justify warEmmy SasipornkarnLeo XIV began his first pre-Easter week since his election as pope last MayImage: Pool/Catholic Press Photo/IPA/ZUMA/picture alliancePope Leo XIV on Sunday rejected claims that God justifies war during a Palm Sunday Mass, as the Iran war entered its second month. Addressing tens of thousands gathered in St. Peter's Square, the pontiff emphasized that Jesus must not be used to legitimize any form of warfare. "Brothers and sisters, this is our God: Jesus, King of Peace, who rejects war, whom no one can use to justify war," Leo said. "He does not listen to the prayers of those who wage war, but rejects them, saying: 'Even though you make many prayers, I will not listen: your hands are full of blood'," he added, citing a Bible passage. Read our full story here. https://p.dw.com/p/5BLQaCopy linkSkip next section Ukraine's Zelenskyy in Jordan as Middle East tour continues1 hour ago1 hour agoUkraine's Zelenskyy in Jordan as Middle East tour continuesUkrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy was in Jordan on Sunday as he continued a tour of the region during which he has signed defense cooperation agreements with several Gulf states. "Security is the top priority and it is important that all partners make the necessary efforts toward it," Zelenskyy wrote on social media alongside a video of him arriving in Aman. "Ukraine is doing its part. Important meetings ahead." Zelenskyy's visit to Jordan comes on the back of visits to Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Qatar, all of whom are keen to benefit from Ukraine's experience in drone warfare. Ukrainian anti-drone experts have been deployed to all three countries since Iran began responding to US-Israeli aerial bombardments with retaliatory strikes on Gulf states allied with Washington. According to the French AFP news agency, a Ukrainian team has also been in Jordan for several weeks. Kyiv has developed a mix of cheap drone interceptors, electronic jamming tools and anti-aircraft guns to down Russian drones - many of which are based on the Iranian "Shahed" design - which have been targeting Ukrainian cities on an almost daily basis for over four years as part of the ongoing invasion. It has proposed swapping its interceptor technology for the expensive air-defense missiles that US allies in the region are currently using to down Iranian drones, but which Ukraine would like to use against Russian cruise missiles. https://p.dw.com/p/5BLKxCopy linkSkip next section Two Indian-flagged ships pass through Strait of Hormuz2 hours ago2 hours agoTwo Indian-flagged ships pass through Strait of HormuzTwo more Indian-flagged tankers passed through the Strait of Hormuz this weekend carrying a combined cargo of about 94,000 tons of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), India's Shipping Ministry said on Sunday. The two LPG carriers, BW TYR and BW ELM, are now proceeding toward India's western coast, the former headed for Mumbai and the latter for Mangaluru. In retaliation for US-Israeli air strikes, Iran has all but halted maritime traffic in the Strait of Hormuz, a key route for global crude oil and LPG. The closure of the strait has put pressure on the global economy – including in India, the world's fourth-largest buyer of liquified natural gas (LNG) and second-largest buyer of LPG, which is used for cooking and predominantly sourced from the Middle East. India maintains strong relations with Iran, which is currently only allowing certain ships to pass through the Strait of Hormuz. Four other Indian LPG tankers had earlier transited the strait, but 18 Indian-flagged vessels – with 485 Indian sailors onboard – remain in the Gulf region. Meanwhile, New Delhi has also steadily expanded cooperation with Israel in defense, agriculture, technology and cybersecurity, creating a diplomatic balancing act in the context of the current conflict. https://p.dw.com/p/5BLHJCopy linkSkip next section Iran 'waiting' for US ground assault, says parliament speaker 5 hours ago5 hours agoIran 'waiting' for US ground assault, says parliament speaker Mohammad Bagher Qalibaf said Iranian forces were 'waiting' for US troopsImage: Icana/ZUMA/IMAGOIran's parliamentary speaker claimed on Sunday that the United States was planning a ground attack on the country despite publicly appearing to engage in diplomatic efforts to end the war in the Middle East. "The enemy publicly sends messages of negotiation and dialogue while secretly planning a ground attack," said Mohammad Bagher Qalibaf in a statement carried by the official IRNA news agency. "Our men are waiting for the arrival of the American soldiers on the ground to set them on fire and punish their regional allies once and for all," he added, calling for unity among Iranians and saying the country was in "a major global war" that has reached its "most critical" stage. "We are certain that we can punish the United States, make it regret attacking Iran, and firmly secure our legitimate rights," he said. Meanwhile, in the US, the Washington Post also reports that the Pentagon has been drawing up plans for a possible ground offensive "for weeks." However, it remains unclear whether US President Donald Trump would approve such plans given his previous promises to keep US troops out of foreign wars. Senior US figures have repeatedly ruled out ground operations against Iran, with Secretary of State Marco Rubio insisting on Friday that Washington can achieve its goals via aerial bombing and without "boots on the ground." Iran: What would a US ground offensive look like? Nevertheless, he refused to categorically rule out deploying ground troops and thousands of US soldiers have been redeployed from Asia to the Middle East in recent weeks, including marines from the 31st and 11th expeditionary units and paratroopers from the US Army's 82nd Airborne Division. The Wall Street Journal has also reported on up to 10,000 additional US Army infantry who may be deployed to the Gulf. The numbers are vastly fewer than the hundreds of thousands of American and allied troops involved in the 1991 and 2003 Gulf Wars, and they lack comparable armored and logistical support, but they could feasibly conduct limited raids on key Iranian installations in and around the Strait of Hormuz. One potential target for a US ground attack could be the strategically important island of Kharg towards the northern end of the Persian Gulf, via which 90% of Iran's crude oil exports pass. President Trump has had Kharg island in his personal sights for decades, telling The Guardian back in 1988: "One bullet shot at one of our men or ships and I'd do a number on Kharg Island. I'd go in and take it." https://p.dw.com/p/5BKtlCopy linkSkip next section Iran condemns Israeli killing of 3 journalists in Lebanon7 hours ago7 hours agoIran condemns Israeli killing of 3 journalists in LebanonIranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi has condemned Israel's deadly attack on a media vehicle in southern Lebanon, calling it a "targeted assassination" and a "violation of international law." Three journalists were killed in the Israeli strike in Jezzine on Saturday, their TV stations reported. Hezbollah's al-Manar channel said its correspondent Ali Shoeib was killed, while Beirut-based Al Mayadeen TV said reporter Fatima Ftouni and her brother, video journalist Mohammed Ftouni, also died in the strike. Rescuers on the scene were then stuck by a follow-up attack by the Israeli military that caused more deaths, according Reuters. The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) released a statement saying it had targeted one of the journalists, alleging he was part of a Hezbollah intelligence unit operating under the guise of media work. It did not mention the other two reporters. The statement added that Shoeib "reported on the locations of IDF troops operating in southern Lebanon." Al-Manar TV did not respond to the allegations but said its longtime war correspondent was "distinguished by his professional and credible reporting of events." https://p.dw.com/p/5BKhHCopy linkSkip next section Pakistan hosting Saudi, Turkey, Egypt ministers for Iran war talks7 hours ago7 hours agoPakistan hosting Saudi, Turkey, Egypt ministers for Iran war talksThe foreign ministers of Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Egypt were expected in Pakistan on Sunday for two days of talks on the conflict in the Middle East. Pakistani Foreign Minister Ishaq Dar is hosting the talks in Islamabad which don't involve any of the directly warring parties. Nevertheless, in preparation for the talks, Dar held a phone call with his Iranian counterpart, Abbas Araghchi, on Saturday, during which he emphasized the need for de-escalation, dialogue and diplomacy as the only viable paths to peace. "Dialogue, diplomacy, and such confidence-building measures are the only way forward," Dar wrote on social media, tagging US Vice President JD Vance, Secretary of State Marco Rubio, envoy Steve Witkoff and Araghchi in his post. Meanwhile, Pakistani Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif said he also had a "detailed" call on Saturday with Iran's president, Masoud Pezeshkian, who he called his "brother." Sharif said he had encouraged Pezeshkian to take advantage of "Pakistan's ongoing diplomatic outreach — engaging the United States and brotherly Gulf and Islamic countries — to facilitate dialogue and de-escalation." Pezeshkian praised Islamabad's efforts and "thanked Pakistan for its mediation efforts to stop the aggression against the Islamic republic," according to his office. Pakistan has emerged as a key diplomatic link between Iran and the United States as the conflict drags on, serving as an intermediary for messages between the two sides. Islamabad has longstanding links with Tehran and close contacts in the Gulf, while Prime Minister Sharif and Field Marshal Asim Munir, the head of the armed forces, reportedly enjoy a good personal rapport with US President Donald Trump. "Pakistan remains committed to supporting all efforts aimed at restoring regional peace and stability," said Foreign Minister Dar. https://p.dw.com/p/5BKioCopy linkSki